*Update* CanadaBuys Portal Maintenance Rescheduled
Please note that the CanadaBuys website critical upgrade has been rescheduled as follows:
New Maintenance Window:
Friday, April 4, 2025, 20:00 (8:00 PM) EDT to Monday, April 7, 2025, 07:00 (7:00 AM) EDT
CanadaBuys and the Tender Management Application (TMA) will be temporarily inaccessible. However, PSPC users will still have access to their SAP accounts during this period. Publication syncing will resume once the upgrade is complete.
We encourage you to plan accordingly and complete any urgent tasks before the critical upgrade begins. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause and appreciate your understanding as we carry out this critical upgrade.
Important Notice: Procurement Posting Guidelines During Federal Elections
During a federal government election, it is the buyer’s responsibility to obtain proper approval prior to posting procurement activities on CanadaBuys. For more information on obtaining approval prior to posting on CanadaBuys, buyers should contact their supervisor. For technical questions regarding publications or urgent requirements regarding postings, contact the
Service Desk
.
CanadaBuys
Welcome to the home for doing business with the Government of Canada and the broader Canadian public sector. Here you will find our suite of online procurement services.
Find tender opportunities
Interested in browsing our tender opportunities? Want to sign up for notifications about notices? Start a search using the CanadaBuys tendering service.
>
Search tenders
Getting started
Find out how to prepare for buying for or selling to the Government of Canada.
Get started
Need help?
Look through a collection of useful how-to guides or contact our Service Desk.
Access support
How procurement works
Get an overview of our policies and guidelines, procurement process, and more.
Learn about our process
Useful links
Office of the Procurement Ombud
A neutral organization within the government that helps resolve disputes and contracting issues.
Procurement support for businesses
Get help with bidding on federal contracts, attend webinars and more.
News and events
Get all our latest news and learn about upcoming events.
Privacy and security
Your privacy is important to us. Find out about our commitment to protecting your information.
Report a problem on this page
Date modified:
2024-12-10