AgriScience Program – Projects: Step 3. Before you apply
Step 1.
What this program offers
Step 2.
Eligibility
Step 3. Before you apply
Step 4.
How to apply
Step 5.
Complete the application and apply
Step 6.
After you apply
Contact information
Step 3. Before you apply
Intake period: Open
Applications will be accepted until funding has been fully committed or until otherwise announced here.
The program ends March 31, 2028.
Review and consider the following information before you apply.
Sources of funding
In your application, you must clearly show all sources of funding for the project, including your contribution and other industry and/or sources of funding including:
other federal government departments
Endnote
1
provincial/territorial governments
Endnote
1
municipal governments
Endnote
1
industry and/or partners such as:
industry associations and networks
businesses
academia
Project assessment process
The application process is competitive and the application assessment will consider 3 main components:
The science
The program's funding principles
Your organizational capacity
All proposals will be reviewed to make sure that the activities include sound scientific methodologies and principles. This assessment will examine the following criteria:
Relevance, risk, feasibility and impact of the research on the sector
Research methodology and experimental design
Realistic timelines to achieve planned results
Science capacity, that the proposed science team possess or has access to the necessary qualifications, mix of disciplines, and track record to successfully complete the proposed activities
Proven capacity/capability of intellectual property (IP) management, where applicable
Also, where proposed activities are a continuation of work supported under a previous AgriScience project, you should demonstrate how the current proposal advances the science relative to the previous work. Evidence of progress toward the objective of the previously-funded research should be included in the proposal.
We will also examine proposals to confirm that you have the necessary technical, financial and managerial capacity to manage the activities. And, as appropriate, we will assess alignment with the following program funding principles:
Strategic value to Canada
The proposed activity includes a clear articulation of how the proposed research will advance the sector in one or more of the program's 3 priority areas to benefit Canada.
Whole value chain approach
Projects that include multiple activities are expected to generate benefits along the value chain (which may include inputs and service providers, primary producers, food and beverage processors, distributors, retailers, wholesalers, and food service providers).
Results-based
The proposal describes expected measurable impacts including details of estimated economic, environmental and social benefits. Proposed activities demonstrate a range of calculated risk, benefits and impacts.
Knowledge transfer and adoption
The proposed activities include appropriate knowledge transfer components to disseminate and encourage uptake of results and ensure that all stakeholders can benefit from the outcomes.
Collaboration, partnerships, diversity and inclusion
Collaboration takes place through partnerships among stakeholders to address sector-specific issues. Partnerships may be formed among researchers, academia, producers, industry groups, non-governmental organizations , private industry and others, as applicable. To promote greater inclusion, efforts are made to increase the diversity of both participants and beneficiaries of proposed research, including underrepresented and marginalized groups such as visible minorities, women, youth and Indigenous Peoples.
Priority for funding and support will be directed toward proposals and/or activities that meet or exceed the expectations outlined in these program principles and assessment criteria. If a proposal does not meet or exceed these expectations, you may be directed to:
seek support from other funders where appropriate
remove certain proposed activities within project proposals
increase the applicant contribution
Considerations
M-30 Act (Quebec organizations only)
The Province of Quebec's M-30 legislation may apply to Quebec-based applicants only. It is the
Act Respecting the Ministère du Conseil exécutif
(R.S.Q., c. M-30).
More information on the act is available online or by contacting the Ministère de l'Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l'Alimentation at
dpci@mapaq.gouv.qc.ca
.
All Quebec-based organizations will have to address this matter and demonstrate their compliance with the act during the application assessment process, and prior to entering into a contribution agreement.
Intellectual property
Should your funding proposal be approved, specific IP requirements relevant to the project(s)/activities will be included in the contribution agreement and/or Collaborative Research and Development Agreement.
Intellectual property means all patents, trademarks, industrial designs, trade-names, copyright, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights, whether registered or not, and all confidential information and technical information, including know-how, show-how, inventions, processes, products, formulae, designs, records, and all bacterial, viral, plant, human or animal material that has new genetic or other characteristics.
Frequently used terms
Collaborative Research and Development Agreement
A legally binding agreement used when two or more Parties, including AAFC, agree to work in collaboration through an equitable relationship on a common research project, in putting their respective resources pursuing common goals and sharing the benefits and the risks associated with this endeavor.
Contribution
A transfer payment subject to performance conditions specified in a
contribution agreement
. A contribution is to be accounted for and is subject to audit. Contributions are different from grants; grants are unconditional transfer payments.
Cash contribution
A cash contribution means the cash provided by either your organization or by a participant/contributor (such as a partner or other government) secured by your organization for the project and used during the life of the project to pay for eligible costs for goods and/or services required to complete project activities. To be considered a cash contribution to the project, the funds must be used to pay for eligible costs.
For Vote 10 activities, cash contributions may include salaries, wages, fees and benefits of employees or contractors in your or the collaborator organization. For Vote 1 activities, AAFC may consider your resources (on a case by case basis) as part of your cash contribution, up to 10% of the total industry contribution in the CRDA.
In-kind contribution
In-kind means the fair value of goods and/or services that are contributed to a project's eligible costs and require no cash payment by your organization or by a participant/contributor (such as a partner or other government).
If neither your organization or an industry partner/contributor pays for goods and/or services required for a project, the values may be shown as in-kind contributions.
Contributions from academic organization are considered in-kind.
Any in-kind contributions must be made toward eligible costs, be essential to complete project activities and achieve project results, and would otherwise have to be purchased or paid for your organization.
In-kind contributions will not be reimbursed by AAFC. Examples of potential in-kind contributions:
Equipment required for the project (with a useful life in excess of one year and a per item cost greater than $10,000) you already owned or was donated or loaned by a partner
Land, or a portion of land, owned by a partner is provided to support an activity without charge
An academic institution provides materials analysis services toward an activity at no real cost to you
Salaries, wages, fees and benefits of employees or contractors in your or the collaborator organization do not qualify as in-kind contributions.
Fair market value
The reasonable dollar value amount you can get for your goods in an open and unrestricted market, between a willing buyer and a willing seller who are acting independently of each other.
Fair value
The amount for services that would be agreed upon in an arm's length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties who are under no compulsion to act.
Flat rate
A rate that is the same in all cases and that does not vary in proportion with something.
Per diem
An allowance or payment made for each day.
Recipient
An entity that either has been authorized to receive a transfer payment or that has received that transfer payment.
Transfer payment
A monetary payment, or a transfer of goods, services or assets made, on the basis of an appropriation, to a third-party, including a Crown corporation, which does not result in the acquisition by the Government of Canada of any goods, services or assets. Transfer payments are categorized as grants, contributions and other transfer payments. Transfer payments do not include investments, loans or loan guarantees.
Travel status
Occurs when a person, conducting project activities, is more than 50 kilometers away (one way) from their assigned workplace using the most direct, safe and practical route, usually for more than one day.
Endnotes
Endnote 1
Total government funding (other federal departments, provincial/territorial, and municipal governments) cannot exceed 85% of total project funding.
Your portion of the cost-share is made as a direct payment to AAFC. On a case-by-case basis, AAFC may consider your resources as part of your cash contribution up to 10% of the total industry contribution in the CRDA. The In-kind contributions limit (also 10% of the total industry contribution) applies separately, and will be managed on an activity-by-activity basis.
Return to footnote
1
referrer
Previous-next document navigation - bottom
Previous
Next
Date modified:
2024-06-17