Programs and initiatives
As an entrepreneur, you have passion and vision, and you dream big.
The Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency is in the business of keeping that spirit going and growing. Whether you’re a start-up or an established business, ACOA is ready to help you:
expand and reach new markets
develop new products
go green
be more productive
hire and retain people with the skills you need
Whether you’re just starting out or you’re getting ready to take the next step, come and talk to ACOA for access to financing, advice and information that will bring your business ideas to life.
Want to take your business to the next level?
[
PDF
- 785
KB
]
ACOA Business Information Services
ACOA programs
Forms
Contact us
FAQ
Programs
Business Development Program
Hire an expert, create a business plan, improve your productivity – all with interest-free repayable funding.
Community Futures
Start or scale up your business with loans and training to entrepreneurs through the Community Futures Program.
Innovative Communities Fund
If you have a community project in mind, check out the Innovative Communities Fund to see if it's right for you.
Regional Economic Growth through Innovation
Grow your business, reach new markets and stay on top of the latest technology.
Past programs
ACOA programs that are no longer accepting applications, including COVID-19 initiatives.
Initiatives
Atlantic Canada's Industrial and Technological Benefits policy
See how ACOA makes sure Atlantic Canadians benefit from this policy, which  requires contractors who win major defence bids to do business in Canada.
Atlantic Growth Strategy
This strategy is a federal-provincial initiative to create well-paying jobs, strengthen local communities and grow innovative companies.
Black Entrepreneurship Program
Black Canadian business owners can grow their businesses and succeed now and into the future.
Canada Digital Adoption Program
Take advantage of new digital technologies to give your business an edge. Find out what grants are available.
Canada Coal Transition Initiative
We’re here to help workers and communities adjust to the transition to a greener economy by investing in new opportunities.
Economic Development Initiative
Are you an official language minority community, or OLMC? We can help you support local growth.
Elevate Tourism Initiative
The Elevate Tourism Initiative (Elevate) is a focused, time-limited effort aimed at enhancing tourism offerings in Atlantic Canada.
International Trade and Investment
Businesses looking to reach international markets can get information, financial assistance and strategic support.
Northern Isolated Community Initiatives Fund
The NICI Fund supports current and new food-related initiatives that strengthen and diversify economic activity in the territories and throughout Inuit Nunangat, which includes Nunatsiavut (northern Labrador).
Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative
Through the RAII, ACOA is helping to bridge the gap between cutting-edge AI research and broader marketplace consumption with support for Atlantic Canadian businesses.
Regional Homebuilding Innovation Initiative
The RHII provides support to pursue new approaches for building houses, including designing and upscaling modular homes, the use of 3D printing, panelized construction, as well as implementing net-zero and climate resilient homebuilding practices.
Tourism Growth Program
This program helps Indigenous and non-Indigenous communities, small and medium-sized businesses, and non-profit organizations develop local tourism products and experiences.
Contact us today!
Call 1-888-576-4444.
Or contact us by email:
Nova Scotia
New Brunswick
Prince Edward Island
Newfoundland and Labrador
Outside Atlantic Canada
Nova Scotia
New Brunswick
Prince Edward Island
Newfoundland and Labrador
Outside Atlantic Canada
Hours of operation: Monday to Friday, 8 am to 5 pm (Atlantic time)
Impact stories
Businesses like yours make a difference in Atlantic Canada. Read about the experiences of businesspeople, innovators and change-makers in our region, the challenges they’ve faced, and the solutions they found on the way to success.
Browse through all our stories
Motryx
has developed a quality assurance technology to assist hospitals, laboratories and research institutions monitor their blood transportation system without jeopardizing the blood samples.
When Lisa Ali Learning’s two sons became ill with Lyme disease three years ago in Mahone Bay, Nova Scotia, she was driven to act. After they recovered, she wanted to ensure her children, and their dog would be safe from ticks while continuing to enjoy the outdoors. Lisa’s solution led to the creation of
AtlanTick Repellent Inc.
The Prince Edward Island Brewing Company
is satisfying a Canadian thirst for buying local and supporting independent enterprises. “We are responding to consumer demand,” says Jeff Squires, president of the Charlottetown-based brewery.
Page details
Date modified:
2025-03-06