Net Zero Accelerator Initiative
From: Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada
The Net Zero Accelerator (NZA) initiative invites forward-looking Canadian companies to contribute to Canada's global leadership efforts by meeting its ambitious target of reducing GHG emissions by 40 to 45% by 2030, and achieve net zero by 2050. The NZA supports the Government of Canada's strengthened climate plan, A Healthy Environment and a Healthy Economy, to deliver a stronger economy that thrives in a low-carbon world to the benefit of all Canadians. With up to $8 billion in funding to support large-scale investments in key industrial sectors across the country, the NZA ensures that Canada:
remains competitive in a net-zero economy
reduces greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
The NZA has been in high demand since its launch in 2020. The Strategic Innovation Fund is prioritizing projects that can deliver near-term emissions reductions to help meet the 2030 target.
Investment pillars
The following NZA investment pillars have been chosen to maximize the impact of program investments:
Decarbonization of large emitters
Focusing on near-term emissions reduction — Under this pillar, investments aim to help Canada's largest emitting industrial sectors such as oil and gas and heavy industry (steel, aluminum, cement, mining and mineral processing and chemicals) dramatically reduce their current domestic GHG footprint faster and with less financial risk. This pillar primarily supports Canada's 2030 climate goals, while aligning with 2050 objectives. With the right investments, this pillar could preserve thousands of jobs across Canada for decades to come.
Investment principles for the decarbonization of large emitters
Support Canada's 2030 emissions reduction target, while remaining in line with the net-zero by 2050 goal
Prioritize developed technologies that can be used by 2030
Prioritize projects that will have additional or quicker benefits than would have been achieved without NZA investment
Provide meaningful reductions in domestic GHG emissions, with strong preference given to those with quantifiable and direct GHG reductions
Industrial transformation
Clean technology and battery ecosystem development
Our investment decisions under each pillar are guided by these core investment principles:
Build a balanced portfolio — Make sensible investments across all of the pillars to advance both 2030 and 2050 climate goals
Maximize leverage — Bring together funding partners from a range of public and private sectors and highlight projects with a higher share of private investment
Work with provinces and territories — Support investments that are aligned with provincial and territorial decarbonization priorities and consider regional environmental, industrial and economic needs
Other investment decision considerations include a project's ability to:
deliver on intended outcomes
create and maintain high-skill, long-term employment in Canada
develop supply chains and intellectual property opportunities
promote Canadian global competitiveness
Interested in applying?
The NZA is part of the Strategic Innovation Fund, which accepts applications on an ongoing, non-competitive basis. If you are thinking about applying, contact us for an initial conversation.
To start the application process, visit How to apply to the Strategic Innovation Fund.
Be prepared to describe your planned or potential reductions in GHG emissions along with your innovation and technological enhancements.
Note: There will be a due diligence review if your proposal advances to the full application stage. In this review, we will validate your GHG reduction estimates before informing you of the outcome of your funding application.
The Net-Zero Challenge
Encouraging companies to transition their facilities and operations to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050.
Related links
About the program
Project requirements
How to apply
Investments
Date modified: 2022-03-17