ECO Employment Programs
Environmental Employability Pathways Program
The Environmental Employability Pathways (EEP) program is part of the government of Canada’s Youth
Employment and Skills Strategy (YESS) Program aims to help youth who have faced barriers navigate through the labour market and develop skills to transition into sustained employment successfully.
Program Status:
Closed
Applications are now closed.
Please subscribe to ECO Canada’s newsletter for updates on funding
.
Apply as a Youth Candidate (Closed)
Apply as an Employer (Closed)
Navigate the Labour Market and Transition into Sustained Employment
About the Environmental Employability Pathways Program
The Environmental Employability Pathway Program is an employment readiness program which aims to help all youth (age 15 to 30) to navigate through the labour market and to successfully transition into sustained employment.
Small and medium sized businesses can receive up to $12,000 in wage funding for their next hire.
"
*
" indicates required fields
First Name
*
Last Name
*
Email Address
*
Phone
Education Level
					*
Select below
High School
Undergraduate
Graduate
Technical / Diploma
Other
Phone
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Submit
Program & Eligibility Overview
How Does the Environmental Employment Pathways Program Work?
1. Apply Online
Fill out our eligibility assessment and application.
2. Get Approved
Candidates and employers will be informed by email once they are pre-qualified to participate in the program.
3. Recruitment
Candidates and employers are required to find their own placement, ECO Canada can offer helpful resources such as the Job Board (where hosts can post a job and candidates can submit their resume).
4. Secure Funding
Funding is secured once a match is confirmed between the employer and a pre-approved candidate and contract agreements have been signed and returned to us within 15 days of being issued.
5. Receive Funding
This program offers
eligible employers 50% wage coverage up to $12,000
of a participant’s salary for a placement in a new full or part-time position.
Including a potential of $2,000 for participant supports.
Both the employer and candidate must fill out reports throughout the placement for the employer to receive the wage subsidy.
Eligible Employers Receive 50% Wage Coverage Up To $12,000 of a Candidate’s Salary
Breakdown for Youth Candidates
This program is open to participants who are aged 15-30.
Funding is focused within an environmentally related role.
This program is open to candidate’s who hold Canadian citizenship, Canadian permanent residency status, or Canadian refugee status.
Apply as a Youth Candidate (Closed)
Breakdown for  Employers
Receive 50% up to $12,000 in funding towards a participant's salary.
The host employer must provide a new, permanent position and the job must be environmentally-related.
Employers must be small-medium sized organization.
Employers must be Canadian-owned or a Canadian subsidiary, municipal government, provincial or territorial governments department, or Indigenous organizations.
Funding will cover full-time or part-time placements that are 6 weeks to 12 months long.
Apply as an Employer (Closed)
About ECO Canada
As the steward for the Canadian Environmental workforce across all industries, ECO Canada offers employment programs that stimulate environmental career pathways, skill development, business growth, workforce support and workforce advancement through wage and training funding. 

To date, we have distributed over $176M in wage and training subsidies and helped to fill 16,775 job placements!