Environment and Climate Change Canada
Environment and Climate Change Canada
Protecting and conserving our natural heritage, predicting weather and environmental conditions, preventing and managing pollution, promoting clean growth and a sustainable environment for present and future generations.
Read the latest news
Featured
Plan your visit to one of the Canada’s National Wildlife Areas today
Most requested
Species at Risk Public Registry
Migratory game birds
Causes and effects of climate change
Pricing carbon pollution
Environment indicators
Water quantity
Services and information
Bouchard
(Phoenix pay system) class action:
A settlement has been reached in the
Bouchard
class action against the Government of Canada. Consult the
first notification
to class members to learn more about the settlement, who’s included in the class action, how to participate in the hearing to approve the settlement or how to opt out of the class action.
Weather
Forecasts, alerts, radar maps, historical data, natural hazards, air quality.
Climate change
Canada's plan, progress reports, funding programs, science and data, clean growth, climate action map, net-zero emissions.
Wildlife, plants and species
Biodiversity, species at risk, migratory birds, wildlife research, international trade.
Water and the environment
Monitoring quality, sustainability indicators, water science, cleaning up our lakes and rivers, protecting water.
Pollution and waste management
Zero plastic waste, environmental regulations and emergencies, chemical substances, contaminated sites.
Environmental conservation and protection
Sustainability, protected areas, environmental funding, Canada's Nature Legacy, laws that protect air, water, land and wildlife.
Environmental science and technology
Official Environment Canada research and environmental technology information.
Contact us
Contact ECCC
About Environment and Climate Change Canada
Mandate
Transparency
Accessibility
Job opportunities
Programs and services
Compliance
Enforcement notifications
More:
About ECCC
On social media
Environment and Climate Change
Environment Canada
Environment and Climate Change Canada
Environment and Climate Change Canada
canenvironment
Ministers
The Honourable Terry Duguid
Minister of Environment and Climate Change
News
Environment and Climate Change news
More:
ECCC
news
Features
Canada’s Climate Plan Campaign
Discover how Canada’s Climate Plan is good for both the environment and the economy.
Enhanced Climate Plan
Overview of what's in Canada's climate plan, known as the Pan-Canadian Framework on Clean Growth and Climate Change. This framework includes federal, provincial and territorial actions and commitments regarding climate change.
Page details
Date modified:
2025-03-24