Our Programs and Services
Economic Development Initiative (EDI)
Inclusive Diversification and Economic Advancement in the North (IDEANorth)
Northern Indigenous Economic Opportunities Program (NIEOP)
Northern Projects Management Office (NPMO)
Northern Isolated Community Initiatives (NICI) Fund
Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative (RAII)
Regional Homebuilding Innovation Initiative (RHII)
Tourism Growth Program (TGP)
CanNor
Applications and Business Tools
CanNor
has a dedicated team of professional staff across the three territories, and works alongside its partners and stakeholders to foster northern economic development. The Agency is committed to delivering on the Government of Canada's priority to create a strong, diversified and sustainable economy that creates jobs, growth and long-term prosperity for the benefit of Northerners and all Canadians.
Program Terms and Conditions
CanNor
Service Standards for Program Delivery
2025-2026 Expression of Interest
The Canadian Northern Economic Development Agency's Expression of Interest (EOI) for new single or multi-year projects beginning after March 31, 2025, closed on November 18, 2024.
If you missed the deadline but have a project or an idea you would like to discuss, contact your CanNor regional office to explore other possible funding options (if available).
The Canadian Northern Economic Development Agency's Expression of Interest (EOI) for new single or multi-year projects beginning after March 31, 2025, is now open and will close on November 18, 2024.
Only successful EOI submissions will be invited to submit full applications. EOIs submitted past this deadline will only be considered should funding remain available following the completion of this initial EOI assessment process.
2025-2026 Expression of Interest
Black Entrepreneurship Program
Every day, Black business owners and entrepreneurs make invaluable contributions to communities across the country, and their success is essential to Canada's economic recovery and future prosperity.
The Black Entrepreneurship Program (BEP) is a national program that will provide Black business owners and entrepreneurs with the supports they need to not only recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, but also lay a foundation that will enable them to grow their business in the months and years to come. The Program has three main components:
Up to $53 million to create a National Ecosystem Fund for Black-led organizations;
Up to $161 million for Black business owners and entrepreneurs ($33M from the Government and $128M from participating financial institutions); and
Up to $6.5 million to create a Black Entrepreneurship Knowledge Hub.
Applications received from eligible businesses located in Nunavut, Northwest Territories, and Yukon will be processed by the Federal Economic Development Agency for Southern Ontario (FedDev).
Visit
ISED
to learn more about how to apply for the Black Entrepreneurship Program.
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes
No
If not, tell us why:
What was wrong?
I can't
find
the information
The information is hard to
understand
There was an error or something
didn't work
Other reason
Please provide more details
You will not receive a reply. Don't include personal information (telephone, email, SIN, financial, medical, or work details).
Maximum 300 characters
Submit
Thank you for your feedback
Date modified:
2024-11-20