CanNor program guidelines: IDEANorth
PDF format
(387
Kb
, 9 pages)
On this page
1.0 About this document
2.0 Program overview
2.1 Expected results
2.2 Program streams
3.0 Eligibility
3.1 Eligible recipients
3.2 Eligible initiatives and projects
3.3 Eligible expenditures
3.4 Ineligible expenditures
4.0 Intake and assesment
4.1 Application intake process
4.2 Assessment criteria and selection process
5.0 Funding
5.1 Funding to recipients
5.2 Cost sharing
5.3 Stacking limits
5.4 Maximum funding
6.0 Payments
7.0 Monitoring and reporting
8.0 CanNor contact information
1.0 About this document
This document  provides potential recipients of CanNor's Inclusive Diversification and  Economic Advancement in the North (IDEANORTH) program with information about  the program, including:
Program Description and Funding Streams
Project and Proponent Eligibility Requirements & Eligible Expenditures
Application Intake and Assessment Process
Funding and Payment Methods
CanNor Contact Information
2.0 Program overview
IDEANorth -  Inclusive Diversification and Economic Advancement in the North
IDEANorth:
Is administered by the Canadian Northern Economic Development Agency  (CanNor), and promotes economic development in the North in order to strengthen  territorial economies and increase economic participation by Northerners;
Replaces the Strategic Investments in Northern Economic  Development (SINED) program to better align, advance, encourage and support  broader economic opportunities as well as the specific economic and business  needs of each territory;
Accepts project proposals through a combination  of targeted calls for expressions of interest (EOIs) and a continuous intake  process throughout the year;
Allows for the use of both non-repayable and  repayable Contribution Agreements, thereby expanding the funding mechanisms  available to support the diverse needs of proponents.
2.1 Expected results
Expected  results of the IDEANorth program include:
Strong, stable territorial economy for the benefit of Northerners and all Canadians
Increased economic development and diversification
Partnerships established with Northern governments and organizations
Increased capacity of Northerners to respond to economic development opportunities
Expanded multi-user infrastructure that support economic development
2.2 Program streams
The IDEANorth program will be implemented through four  program streams:
Stream 1: Sector & Capacity Development -
Foundational  investments to advance territorial economic growth and sector development
Stream 2: Business Scale-Up and Productivity -
Targeted investments  to SMEs, start-ups and entrepreneurs to expand their businesses, accelerate  business growth, and enhance productivity and competitiveness.
Stream 3: Small Scale Economic Infrastructure -
Small-scale economic infrastructure development through construction of  new or improvement of existing multi-user community infrastructure.
Stream 4: Economic Infrastructure Studies (large scale) -
Advancing foundational economic infrastructure investments by  supporting pre-construction readiness.
3.0 Eligibility
3.1 Eligible recipients
You can apply to  IDEANorth if you are:
A registered organization (Indigenous and non-Indigenous) including social enterprises, businesses, other levels of government and other non-federal entities, public or private, that have an interest in economic development in the North.
Priority will  be given to applicants who can demonstrate proven capacity to deliver projects  in the North and interest/engagement in territorial economic development.
3.2 Eligible initiatives and projects
Below are examples of eligible  projects under each of the four funding streams:
Stream 1: Sector & Capacity Development
Investments will promote economic growth, sector development  and sector innovation. Examples of foundational investments to advance  territorial sector development would include funding projects that are intended  to enhance the scientific knowledge required to continue developing existing  sectors of the territorial economy (e.g. mining) or emerging sectors (e.g.  commercial fisheries, agriculture) for which basic scientific knowledge is  insufficient and where the technical feasibility or the basis for commercial  viability (e.g. developing the market for a fishery in an isolated community)  is insufficiently understood in a Northern context.
The development of new economic sectors also requires local  capacity development (e.g. training) and these types of investments would be  funded under this stream.
Funding in the short-term will consider other federal and  territorial funding initiatives.
Eligible  projects/activities in this stream may include, but are not limited to:
Research and planning, including development of sectoral strategies to guide investments.
Building capacity of organizations through:
Research  (e.g., needs analysis) and expert support to build the capacity of  organizations to increase economic participation by Northerners.
Assisting  applicants with the development or translation of training materials that  support economic development.
Developing certification standards, curriculum and materials.
Providing support to northern industry organizations to strengthen their capacity to service members (other than core expenses).
Providing support to communities, organizations and associations to deliver expert advice/training in the area of economic and business development (could include workshops, conferences, development of certification standards, curriculum and materials).
Research, consultations, and investments complementary to initiatives for skill development of Northerners (e.g., gap or needs analysis, curriculum development, inventories of skills and services available in the North).
Stream 2: Business scale-Up and productivity
Investments that support businesses through projects related  to business scale-up and productivity with a focus on areas of demonstration,  technology adoption and productivity, adaptation, commercialization and market  expansion and scale-up. Targeted investments will also support the research and  development (R&D) of innovative products and/or services.
Eligible  projects/activities in this stream may include, but are not limited to:
Product commercialization, market development and expansion.
Development of innovative products and services, including the development and adaptation of clean technologies.
Assistance in establishing patents/standards/certification.
Creation of technology clusters.
Technology demonstration, adoption, adaptation and piloting of innovative products, services or processes that contribute to economic development.
Stream 3: Economic infrastructure construction (small scale)
Local economic growth will be enhanced through the construction  and improvement of small-scale economic infrastructure (e.g., visitor centres,  incubator space, fish-harvesting/processing infrastructure) that helps  communities capitalize on economic opportunities.
Eligible  projects/activities in this stream may include, but are not limited to:
Providing support to communities, organizations and associations for the construction of, or expansion of, multi-user economic infrastructure.
Stream 4: Economic infrastructure studies (large scale)
To address foundational infrastructure gaps, large-scale  economic infrastructure critical to economic development (e.g., road, ports,  telecommunication, and electrical grids) will be supported for pre-construction  readiness (e.g., feasibility studies, engineering work, architectural drawings).
Eligible  projects/activities in this stream may include, but are not limited to:
Planning, pre-feasibility and feasibility studies.
Geotechnical and other engineering designs and studies.
3.3 Eligible expenditures
Eligible expenditures  may include, but are not limited to:
Professional fees, such as technical, environmental, legal, project management and business services.
Incremental salaries and benefits directly attributable to the project.
Space and equipment rentals or purchases.
Project feasibility studies.
Research fees such as surveys, data acquisition and research studies.
Capital purchases/acquisitions (e.g. information technology, signage, machinery and equipment, renovations or upgrades, buildings and engineering works).
Travel, including meals and accommodations.
Shipping costs.
Translation Services.
3.4 Ineligible expenditures
Ineligible  expenditures include, but are not limited to:
Economic development costs that would be incurred in the absence of IDEANorth.
Payment for services that would normally be provided without charge.
Costs of direct skills training or education courses for individuals, of the sort normally offered through learning institutions or apprenticeship programs.
Wage subsidies for persons receiving training through course work or on the job.
Core expenses.
Recoverable taxes (i.e., GST).
4.0 Intake and assessment
4.1 Application intake process
CanNor  will accept project proposals through a combination of targeted calls for  expressions of interest (EOIs) and a continuous intake process throughout the  year.
Program  funds are delivered on a project-by-project basis across the North. Project  EOIs and Applications are accepted on an ongoing basis via email at
cannor.operations.cannor@canada.ca
.
4.2 Assessment criteria and selection process
In addition to  the eligibility criteria set out in
Section 3. Eligibility
of  this document, the following weighted assessment criteria will be used to rank  proposals:
IDEANorth – Project Assessment Criteria
Assessment Criteria
Weight
1. Economic Benefit and Impact
– This includes elements such as:
the degree to which the proposed project will generate economic benefits / impact at the local, territorial or national level, and the types of benefits generated (new product development, wealth generation, market development/expansion, job creation, enhanced capacity).
the degree to which the proposed project is filling a specific need / economic opportunity, and the evidence supporting it.
the relativity between the size of the project and its expected impact / result.
35%
2. Alignment with program and government priorities
– The degree to which the proposed project aligns with IDEANORTH and Government of Canada priorities (Innovation, Economic Growth and Diversification, etc), as well as identified priority groups (Indigenous Peoples, Women, Youth, etc.) and territorial and local priorities.
20%
3. Organizational capacity
– The degree to which the proponent has demonstrated the capacity to undertake the project and achieve the expected results based on an assessment of its previous relationship with CanNor, makeup of the project team, projects partners, and organizational / governance structure
15%
4. Budget
– The degree to which the proposed budget is reasonable given the proposed outcomes and provides good value for money, taking into consideration elements such as the financial contribution from the proponent and its partner(s), as applicable.
15%
5. Work plan –
The degree to which the proposal provides a clear description of each activity (are they specific, measurable, realistic and relevant) with clearly established and feasible timelines.
15%
The project  assessment will consider all other sources of funding available to the  recipient, including total government assistance (federal, provincial /  territorial and municipal assistance) towards the eligible costs supported by  the contribution. This includes all grants and contributions, subsidies and  rebates, forgivable loans, investment tax credits and any other grant or  contribution.
Consideration  will also be given to projects respecting the Federal, Territorial, and  Indigenous roles and responsibilities for economic development; and ensuring investments  will not place ongoing pressure on the federal fiscal envelope.
5.0 Funding
5.1 Funding to recipients
Funding to  eligible recipients will be project-based and in alignment with the funding  streams and eligibility criteria of the IDEANorth program. Multi-year  applications, approvals and funding arrangements are encouraged, where possible,  to reduce red tape for recipients and to foster longer term and more complex economic  development projects.
CanNor may not  make a contribution in respect of eligible costs for which an eligible  recipient has entered into a legal commitment prior to approval of the project.
CanNor shall  not make a contribution toward the costs of any consultant or other qualified  professional that is not at arm's length from the recipient. Where the cost is  in excess of $25,000, a competitive process shall be used by proponents to  select qualified professionals and/or a rationale shall be provided to warrant  the exception.
5.2 Cost sharing
Cost sharing is  required under IDEANorth. The maximum CanNor contribution to eligible project  costs will be as follows:
Cost sharing ratio
Not-for-Profit organizations, other levels of government, and Indigenous economic development organizations
For-Profit or Small Medium-Sized Enterprises (SME) Recipients
up to 80%
up to 50%
Priority may be  given to projects that provide a higher leveraging ratio (i.e., where  proponents are seeking a lower contribution from CanNor towards total project  costs).
For-Profit  recipients will also be expected to provide a certain percentage of their own  equity towards the project.
5.3 Stacking limits
In addition to cost  sharing constraints established by CanNor above, the following Government  of Canada staking limits must be adhered to:
The maximum level (stacking limit) of total government  assistance (federal, provincial, territorial, and municipal assistance for the  same eligible costs) for this program shall not exceed the following limits:
For projects undertaken  by not-for-profit organizations, other levels of government, and Indigenous  economic development organizations, the maximum level of total government  assistance is 100% of eligible costs.
For projects undertaken  by for-profit businesses and where the total government assistance is  less than $100,000, the maximum level of total government assistance is 75% of  eligible costs.
CanNor reserves the right to reduce the maximum level  (stacking limit) of total government assistance as circumstances warrant.
All recipients  of financial assistance under IDEANorth will be required to inform CanNor of  financial assistance received or expected to be received from any government  (federal, provincial/territorial, municipal) or other sources prior to the  approval of the contribution.
The maximum  federal contribution will include any funding sourced from the Gas Tax Fund.  Provisions for repayment shall be included in the funding agreements.
5.4 Maximum  funding
The amount of funding is determined based on a review and  consideration of the project proposal, taking into account the relevance of the  proposal to these guidelines as well as the objectives, expected results and  specific criteria of IDEANorth.
The maximum contribution an eligible recipient can receive for a  project under IDEANorth is $6 million.
Contributions made to for-profit entities will be repayable to CanNor. Low  value contributions may be exempt from repayment under certain circumstances.
Indigenous  economic development corporations or other Indigenous-controlled for-profit businesses  (whose articles of incorporation do not permit dividends to be paid or  distributed to shareholders) may be exempt from repayment to CanNor.
6.0 Payments
Funding will be  administered and paid according to the specific contribution agreement between CanNor  and the recipient, which will identify the conditions of the assistance, the  obligations of both parties and the conditions under which payment will be made.
Payments will  be made based on one of the following:
Documented claims for eligible expenditures incurred and paid.
The achievement of pre-determined performance expectations or milestones.
Where advance payments of a contribution are essential to the achievement of objectives, and are specifically provided for in the funding agreement and are based on the recipient's cash flow requirements.
Claims for  payments will be certified by officials designated by the Minister as per the  requirements of the
Financial Administration Act
.
Where payments  are made based on pre-determined performance expectations or milestones, or  advances are made based on recipient cash flows, a final accounting of all  project expenditures will be required.
A holdback  portion of any payment will occur when deemed appropriate based on the risk of  non-performance or overpayment.
For simplifying  the administration of contributions, CanNor may make individual payments that  represent a higher percentage sharing ratio than that authorized for the total  contribution, provided that the overall sharing ratio calculated on the total  eligible costs of the project does not exceed the maximum sharing ratios  authorized.
CanNor has no  obligation to pay more than 90% of any contribution prior to completion of the  project and of any audits that may be required.
7.0 Monitoring and reporting
The level of  detail in reporting required from the recipient of a contribution will be  aligned with the risk of the project and may include schedules, plans, and  reports in sufficient detail to enable CanNor to:
Assess the progress of the project.
Assess the financial status of the project / recipient.
Carry out the post-completion monitoring called for in the funding arrangement.
Administer the repayment of the contribution where applicable.
Evaluate the effectiveness of the contribution.
Report on specific key performance indicators, as outlined in the funding agreement.
If reporting is provided to CanNor past the agreed upon due dates¸ recipients may be considered in default of the agreement.
Reporting  requirements will be determined by CanNor for each project or initiative.  Progress and financial reports will be required from recipients, at a minimum,  on an annual basis. Recipients will also be required to submit a final report  at the conclusion of a project, in accordance with the terms of the funding  arrangement, for review and acceptance by CanNor.
CanNor will  gather periodic information regarding the progress of the initiative against  the milestones proposed in the application and to identify unanticipated risks  or impediments to achieving intended results.
The evaluation  process or criteria to be used to assess the effectiveness of the project may  include but is not limited to; the rationale, success, cost-effectiveness,  design and delivery, the results achieved and the nature of impacts resulting  from the implementation of the project.
Recipients will be required to report on IDEANorth performance indicators as part of the  reporting process.
Recipient  contribution agreements will contain applicable directive on: audit provisions,  Official Languages, Intellectual Property, Public Acknowledgement and  Recognition of CanNor or Government of Canada contributions.
8.0 CanNor contact information
For more  information about CanNor programs, please contact CanNor Headquarters at
cannor.operations.cannor@canada.ca
or the
regional office
nearest you.
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes
No
If not, tell us why:
What was wrong?
I can't
find
the information
The information is hard to
understand
There was an error or something
didn't work
Other reason
Please provide more details
You will not receive a reply. Don't include personal information (telephone, email, SIN, financial, medical, or work details).
Maximum 300 characters
Submit
Thank you for your feedback
Date modified:
2018-07-20