Climate finance: International business opportunities
On this page
Opportunities for Canadian companies
Contact the Canadian Trade Commissioner Service
Access climate finance
Canadian successes
Additional resources
To help developing countries mitigate the effects of and adapt to climate change, significant financing is being offered by public, private and alternative sources, such as bilateral organizations and international financial institutions (IFIs), for local, national and transnational projects around the world.
International climate finance mobilized by public and private actors in developed and developing countries totaled almost USD $1.3 trillion in 2022. This is intended to rise to USD $5-7 trillion a year by 2030 based on a commitment from developed countries made at the 28th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
Opportunities for Canadian companies
Climate finance presents growing international business opportunities for Canadian firms across a variety of sectors, such as
professional services
,
clean technologies
,
infrastructure
,
agriculture
,
mining
and
transportation
. By taking on a variety of project roles (e.g. project developer, service provider and technology provider), Canadian firms can enter developing and emerging markets with the support of climate finance.
Although funding opportunities for climate-related projects are numerous, accessing them isn't straightforward. The
Climate Fund Inventory database
covers 90+ climate funds that vary in scope and size. Our regionally focused climate finance trade commissioners can assist you in navigating these business opportunities by providing you with competitive information, briefing sessions, qualified contacts, visit information and assistance with resolving any problems.
Contact the Canadian Trade Commissioner Service
Climate finance trade commissioners in Canada:
tcsclimatefinance@international.gc.ca
Climate finance trade commissioners internationally:
Asia
Manila, Philippines
Grimi Guarico
Climate Finance - Trade Commissioner
Tel : 011 63 2857 9137
grimi.guarico@international.gc.ca
Americas
Washington, D.C., United States
Faheem Noor Ali
Climate Finance - Trade Commissioner
Tel : 202-448-6306
faheem.noorali@international.gc.ca
Africa
Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire
Euloge Camara
Climate Finance - Trade Commissioner
Tel : +225 20300796
euloge.camara@international.gc.ca
Europe and Middle East
London, United Kingdom
Rachel Soares
Climate Finance - Trade Commissioner
Tel: 011 44 2070046219
rachel.soares@international.gc.ca
This support is integrated within the Canadian Trade Commissioner Service's
network of offices abroad and in Canada
, as well as the
aid market support network
.
Access climate finance
Climate finance is offered by a wide variety of actors in the form of grants, debt financing, risk mitigation (e.g. guarantees, insurance), equity and carbon offsets. Climate finance is available to businesses that deliver goods, works or services for projects related to climate change mitigation (PDF format), adaptation (PDF format) and REDD+ (reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation) (PDF format).
Funding is available through
bilateral agencies
and
IFIs
that offer public procurement opportunities for Canadian firms. Financing is also increasingly available through private-sector lending windows. For example, the private-sector arms of many IFIs (e.g. the
International Finance Corporation
) and development finance institutions (e.g. in
Canada
and in
Europe
), as well as institutional and private investors, offer climate finance in the form of debt financing, equity investment or guarantees for specific projects.
For an overview of the international sources of climate finance, how to identify and use public and private sector channels, and best practices:
Overview - Climate finance: International business opportunities
Project Development Handbook
Information on how to access climate-specific business opportunities for each of the following multilateral development banks and funds:
Asian Development Bank (ADB)
African Development Bank (AfDB)
Green Climate Fund (GCF)
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)
World Bank Group (WBG)
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
Information on a selection of regional-focused climate funds that are accessible to Canadian companies:
European-focused climate funds accessible to Canadian companies
Brazilian-focused climate funds for Canadian companies
African-focused climate funds for Canadian companies
Asian-focused climate funds for Canadian companies
Caribbean-focused climate funds for Canadian companies
For more information on the funds highlighted in the reports, in addition to strategies for accessing these funds, please contact our Regional Climate Finance Trade Commissioner.
Canadian successes
Canadian companies demonstrate international leadership in many key sector areas of climate finance, including in renewable energy, consulting services, geomatics, energy efficiency, and agriculture. Here are some examples of Canadian successes abroad:
Case study: Canadian geomatics showcased in fight against climate change.
Case study: Growing international markets for Canadian energy-efficiency firms.
Additional resources
Expand all
Hide all
Climate finance fact sheets
Climate change adaptation
Sustainable livestock management
Enabling agricultural emissions reduction and sustainable supply chains
Sustainable crop management
Coastal adaptation and flood mitigation capacity
Climate finance fundamentals
Climate Finance Fundamentals
The Overseas Development Institute (ODI), an independent, global think tank, provides an overview about available funding and priority sectors for different geographic regions of interest.
Global landscape of climate finance
This website, produced by the Climate Policy Initiative, provides a data visualization of the latest global investment data relevant to climate issues.
Creating markets for climate business: An IFC climate investment opportunities report
This report identifies seven industry sectors that can make a crucial difference in catalyzing private investment: renewable energy, off-grid solar and energy storage, agribusiness, green buildings, urban transportation, water and urban waste management.
Climate finance projects
UN Development Business
(associated membership cost)
This procurement platform serves as the official UN website for consulting, contracting and export opportunities worldwide.
Devex (associated membership cost)
Devex is the largest provider of recruiting and business development services for global development. The platform has an audience of over one million global development professionals and uncovers billions of dollars of climate-related grants and contract opportunities.
DevelopmentAid (associated membership cost)
DevelopmentAid is a platform that provides comprehensive information services for the international development sector. By providing a nexus of funding opportunities, expertise and carefully curated data, the platform connects donors, agencies, consultancy firms, NGOs and individual consultants working in international development.
Climate Technology Centre and Network (CTCN)
The CTCN promotes the accelerated transfer of environmentally sound technologies for low-carbon and climate-resilient development at the request of developing countries. The centre provides technology solutions, capacity building and advice on policy, legal and regulatory frameworks tailored to the needs of individual countries. Membership is free upon approval of the application.
Climate finance funds
Climate Fund Inventory (CFI) database
This provides consolidated information on the number and types of climate funds that are available. You can browse these bilateral and multilateral public climate funds by name, type or field of activity.
Power Africa Toolbox Filter
This provides a comprehensive view of the tools and resources Power Africa uses to drive deals and facilitate investment needed to increase the number of people with access to electricity.
Africa-EU Renewable Energy Cooperation Programme
This provides a funding database related to renewable energy in African markets. It also provides support for accessing those funds, as well as market information about the region.
Webinars and podcasts
Webinar: Climate Finance business opportunities through European funds
The Climate Finance Business Development Team in collaboration with Le Groupe-conseil baastel ltée, has recently published a report on climate-related funding from European Development Finance Institutions (DFIs)
Webinar: Climate Finance business opportunities with the World Bank Group
The World Bank Group is one of the largest sources of financing for developing countries and emerging markets around the world with a strong commitment to significantly increase climate investments on a global scale.
Climate Technology Centre and Network (CTCN) webinar on energy access financing
The CTCN external webinar looks at the mix of technologies and funding required to achieve national and global energy access goals.
World Bank Group's Climate Business Innovation Network (CBIN) webinar series on supporting innovative clean technology businesses
The World Bank's Climate Technology Program (CTP) takes a look at the struggle clients face when structuring a network or ecosystem of partners and stakeholders.
Climate Policy Initiative webinar: Scaling private finance to achieve Paris climate goals
Learn more about the Global Landscape of Climate Finance 2017, a global analysis that presents policy makers with the most comprehensive information available about finance supporting climate change mitigation and adaptation.
European Investment Bank (EIB) podcasts: A Dictionary of Finance
The EIB provides a series of climate-finance-related podcasts to help you better understand the terminology and the concepts used in the sector.
Date modified:
2024-07-31